Oh
hello my name is Portia and welcome to
the ipfs all hands on call we are in the
process of changing our format so we are
beginning earlier
give me one moment
okay sorry about that so let us continue
so as you heard before we are changing
our format and it's still 30 minutes but
we will be going with announcements then
we will have our main talk and after our
main talk we will leave some time for
questions and answers
so let us begin with announcements um if
you have an announcement please do raise
your hand do we have announcements
I believe I saw babied had it
announcement I think we'll have to wait
till the end to do announcements because
people won't be on yet okay no worries
um why don't we give them a couple of
seconds
all right I do see some more people okay
so we are going to change our format
slightly today and we're going to begin
with the talk so we're going to hear
from a rock Lee from Mozilla and he's
going to talk about the decentralized
web so on Rock Lee did I pronounce your
name correctly yeah remarkably well
thank you thank you thank you so I'm
gonna turn it over to you hi everyone my
name is Erik Lagos Alicia Lee I work for
Mozilla and we've been lately working on
the some exploration of how we can
integrate any naval diva protocols into
the web and specifically we're really
exploring these through the web
extensions space right now I'm gonna
show you few slides that I put together
to kind of show what it's all about so
we call lib diva
it's admiral on Mozilla github account
it's developed all the main tree right
now and it's set of very small primitive
API said you know implementing something
like ipfs node in the browser itself the
first one is a protocol API it just
allows you to define an implementation
for your protocol so in this example
that you see on the screen it allows you
to define give a protocol and it allows
you to basically get a request and
stream the response which can be
whatever you want it to be and it has a
correct origin meaning that origin will
be hostname and the schema combination
so if you have many different things on
the ipfs network there will be always
related through the standard web content
security policies and there's an example
how it actually works there's a DNS
service discovery it allows this
basically nodes on the same network to
be able to discover themselves through
the
nests or mdns this is how actually IPF
has go know discover each other so in
theory you could implement in web
accession way to discover other nodes on
a - work and start communication with
them
and this is how the API looks like you
basically have to choose a type protocol
which is a TCP or UDP and a port number
and you can add some metadata to and you
will be able to discover all those notes
on the network there's the TCP socket
API which is just a simple TCP API
really it allows you to post listen and
connect and exchange messages and
there's a UDP socket API which allows
you to do both broadcast messages or
perform the direct connections and
exchange data again and finally the file
system API we're actually not sure if
you want to keep it or not in long term
but what it allows you to is mount a
directory as a filesystem and have a
readwrite access to it it's a little bit
more tricky because we need to go
through the users homes and make sure
that we don't give away access to the
whole filesystem and there's also quota
management stuff so a lot of that stuff
overlays with bunch of other search
mechanisms but it seems to perform way
better than say indexeddb
so we'll see how it will go that's
pretty much all the API is right now so
in the first place we implemented them
over the main tree as they live on
github you can come and contribute as
well that does have some limitations
those that means that you can't build an
add-on and ship it you can build the
experimental led on and try it out so
the next step for us is to actually lend
it to the tree and make it part of the
officially supported web extension API
is that process itself contains many
bunch of other steps and one of them is
defining a thread model which is pretty
much what I'm busy with trying to get
out and once we have that in place I
think it should be just matter of
actually learning zone
just inches of firefox there are some of
the additional work that were planning
on doing the API is Wednesday when we
wrote them we didn't had a readable
writable streams in the tree and now we
have them so we will most likely update
them to use readable streams instead
there are few things that are still open
and kind of are not as high on my list
right now
but I would welcome anyone to come in
and help I'm happy to mentor with that
work as well one of them is Ben for the
protocol API we don't actually have
support for headers that's because
headers are actually tied to the HTTP
protocol so for the custom protocols
there's no such notion as header so if
you want to come up with something that
would require some changes into how
Firefox works they're not too difficult
changes but they are changes
nevertheless there are a few other
low-hanging fruits that somebody can
tackle if you want to come and help the
best thing would be to go at Mozilla
leave the web on github and just open an
issue or there's a pointers to
everything else you can get in touch
with us so that's a brother overview
and I'm happy to answer any questions
you might have thank you so much okay
okay yeah this was amazing
um so if you have any questions please
raise your hand
I should have mentioned so Leo and Alan
show like things they did amazing job at
integrating that stuff in choose a
branch of the fire IP of his companion
so you can actually see some of the
stuff were already working in the ipfs
line there's also a dad version that is
being worked on said actually runs
freighter which is Twitter cloning that
network over that over the add-ons that
use lead Evette
and I think there are some attempts to
get it into the secure scuttlebutt as
well but I don't know how far along they
are
you
all right Alan please yeah it just I
just wondered if there were any is if
there was any way the ipfs or anyone
else could contribute there isn't code
related like documentation or or
something like that yes that would be
great too in fact I am I'm happy to open
the shred model worked more open to it
if you can come and contribute that to I
think that would be in general useful in
terms of understanding personally that's
not something I have ever done before so
it's been you and been learning how to
like see all the ways things can be
abused that I could not imagine so I
could definitely up there too and that
doesn't necessarily require any code
writing Martinez thinking critical
thinking in terms of how would we're
exposing can be abused by bad players
and those can be bad web extensions or
it could be malicious content hosted in
ipfs Frances documentation wise that
would be another great help or making
small examples there is also a bunch of
work needs to be done in the test
infrastructure wise so part of the
problem is Mozilla has test
infrastructure that is tightly coupled
with the Firefox build steps and all of
this stuff and we didn't want to bring
that for this project so it was easier
to develop but that also meant that we
don't have any test for infrastructure
so we start kind of building our own and
there's something in place which is not
perfect but that could use some help or
just adding more tests would be also
helpful so
those kind of things in general if you
think you can just come on to our C
channel and I'm happy to accept any help
or now we get you towards what can be
helpful
what is the RSC channel I believe it
Steven on Mozilla that are seeded or go
home
sorry I don't you'll see me you know
it's on github
it's things there sorry I don't remember
I have it still notes thank you yeah
you
any of questions yes Jim um I'm curious
about the threat model and it seems to
me like that the extension if you give
it full access to tcp/udp that's pretty
dangerous like in terms of like people
malicious people so I don't I think like
if you if the extensions were like
there's a gatekeeper in Mozilla really
goes over the security on this the
extensions that are submitted is this
going to require Mozilla to change the
way it accepts extensions for these
particular EPO so ideas the reason we're
going through those Fred oh sorry Mike I
think you got cut off and I said you
were done and yeah so my intention is
that it should not require any
additional steps other than just writing
it add-on and shipping it that's why I
need to go to the strand model to
answers the concerns whether these
dangerous it is that's part of it so and
often threat model as I understand it
now is basically deciding listing Ward
sinks can what harm it can do and then
sort of trying to place mitigations in
place to prevent the larger issues and
for some issues we might say well that's
kind of a user choice in terms of
installing a ban on and I think big
chunk of that will fall into that but
tcp api is not actually as interesting I
think the protocol handler is one one of
the most interesting ones because
there's a lot of ways malicious add-on
or malicious content ipfs for instance
could get you try to impersonate popular
websites for instance somebody could
write a age LS protocol handlers that
will try to trick you into sick is that
your own amazon.com and steal your
credit card number or some variation of
that so one of the mitigation there
would be to make the UI of the address
bar distinct enough that users can tell
it or maybe on the first load to do some
thing like a door hanger telling you hey
did you notice
is actually not the website that you
might be thinking it is oh and there
could be many combination of zones but
like trying to think of what things
could go wrong and who are the bad
players is helpful I think for the TCP
and UDP it's more like we might limit
the port number range or
I have some other mechanism like that
again it's kind of still in the process
I'm still kind of not quite comfortable
with the whole process that I don't
quite understand it but hopefully we'll
get there
my next question from Davi I like to
questions and the first point being
thank you so much this is awesome it
keeps all the work we do have it again
like thinking few years ago and I came
back three years ago and last year and
now see that this is possible and if we
already have them all working that's
amazing so great work first first
question is I think we we never talked
about this but one of the topics it
comes often when you talk about the
peer-to-peer and transports is not only
ECP and UDP but actually like the fact
that we cannot like mess we the keys
that get used by web RTC or engine soon
future quick we actually have a quick
government that you didn't go for we
could appear today but we already know
that like for browser to girl nodes or
to just know you know Jeff's we will
always have to face the challenge of
doing WebSockets and then some cryptic
channel and then some sweet Mac sure
even even if you that's over a secure
connection because again we cannot give
to the transport the keys to use to
authenticate the connection and
therefore it indicates the nodes is
there any possibility or a PC as like
probably be web kind of like exposing
the API it's from WebRTC and from quick
that would enable us to set up the key
pair that we want the the system to use
when establishing a connection oh maybe
I I don't have a answer because that's
not something I have sought before I'm
not exactly sure if said would be
helpful in turn because likely be web is
con is scoped to the web extension stuff
it's not gonna be available to the web
pages themself
even though you could expose some of
those things and I don't know if there
would be a benefit for you to like do
that from the web extension space rather
than just using direct protocol because
like this we don't necessarily need to
use the web RTC or at least that's not a
shock again yeah
now that we have a normal socket we can
just do the encryption ourselves right
well we can mount quick on top I guess
but like then we would actually
implement the hole quick on top of the
CDP sockets
ya know so probably quick would it make
sense to like expose some API for that
to be honest I haven't really looked
into creeks that much so it's hard for
me to how much but I'm totally open to
like talking about the specific API as
well another like Stanford that might be
related to what you're asking is me and
there's also Dietrich Iola
at Mozilla we are trying to form a w3c
interest group where we can actually
talk about what are the APS we can
standardize and what they should look
like
I don't think TCP or UDP would be that
but some sort of message channeling
where you could say maybe for my swarm
based on some key and we don't
necessarily talk about the what the
underlying thing is choose the
developers I mean but we can as an
implementer decide what those things
could be that might be one option we
could go and in general I think bunch of
people from the IPS are part of the
group where these discussions are
happening so we hope with forming an
interest group we can actually sink more
into how we can t use D via the web
can I go with my second point of my
second question so my second question is
if I understood correctly from a
previous conversation a lot of the curl
that enabled the service discovery to
work on ladies you have actually comes
from fly web what is the state of that
project is like this new effort app is
there new wave of interest uh-huh no so
what happened is fly web I think because
it was touching UI parts and back-end
parts at the same time once it was
backed out they couldn't make out both
of them because one of them would break
so they backed out the
on part and forgot the back end part so
it's a historical accident that the code
base that we use end up in a tree yeah
so that's the state of it fly web I
don't think it's coming back okay okay
so we don't we don't know anyway like I
guess like do we ping the team even I'd
like to tell them and hey yeah so we
were in talks with the people who
developed it and got some advice and
actually they were very helpful in
trying to get things working
but yeah I don't think the fly web as a
project is coming back or I don't know
if it we it is I have not heard anything
along those lines once some of the
things that we will be trying to do at
Mozilla is do some explorations that
might some resemble fly web or it may
not on top of those api's and other
things that we're also looking into so
we have a gecko in the Android now so
we're and it's pretty much set of
components that you can build browsers
which and we're thinking about
integrating Lady webs are too so you can
have Android apps that do kind of your
stuff broccoli do you mind explaining a
bit about um fly web for those who don't
know who aren't familiar all right yeah
sorry I shouldn't start with that so fly
web was a Mozilla's experimental project
I think one about four years ago or
maybe two years or three years ago I'm
not sure exactly one which was
essentially during Firefox OS stays an
idea was that what if websites could
host their own servers so other websites
or other devices in the network could
connect to that and they had few demos
where there was a game running on your
desktop and you would use Firefox OS
phone to connect to it as a like remote
control for the game and multiple people
could connect and they could
interactively play together and it kind
of used the same mechanisms that ipfs
uses to discover those connect source
nodes who serve those services on the
local network
just through mdns or to be precise DNS
service discovery as it turns out it's a
different thing
thank you and we'll take one more
question from Matt
thinks I I also want to thank you for
all your work and for people who don't
know I mean goes always been pushing on
this for years just sort of pushing
pushing pushing and and constantly
rethinking how do we move this forward
so could you speak to where this puts us
along the line of having it be the case
that an everyday user of a web browser
has the web support automatically just
because they're using a web browser like
they don't have to do anything special
in order to be able to have these
protocols working when they're browsing
on the web and also sort of with that
there's how has the reception been
around you on the on the side of Mozilla
and like browser manufacturers oh I
think there are two things so I will try
to address individually ah let me do
couple myself off from
yet modern browsers or ADT browsers do
it it's my own opinion and I'm not sure
what most of us take on that is it would
be I don't think specifically so this
web extension the experiment is
essentially playground to explore what
the api's could look like I think we
ought to think in terms of what can we
add to the web to make it more
mainstream like there are a few things
that I think resonates when talking to
people which can address part of it to
the other and which is like sir things
that web just can't do today like I
cannot get something from one device to
other if I don't go through the cloud
which is just ridiculous and I think
talking about those problems these
people really resonate so maybe we ought
to do something about it where browsers
can just do allow websites to do those
things and
I think it's kind of more of a singing
what if we did something like what if
rather I became ipfs note or maybe it
said ipfs maybe it's that or some other
purple I don't I'm not trying to take
Kemp's but kind of thinking how we can
make the web be how we can make sorry
i'm not answering really well but i i'm
singing we need a high level API is that
are part of web that enables
applications that were people are trying
to build today with ipfs or that not
necessarily is this low-level api s--
and that's part of one of the things
that we want to pursue through the
conversations between protocol
implementers and browsers through the w
stranger at scope in terms of how
perception had been i'm being allowed to
work on this which has been a long time
coming so it's positive i think time is
kind of right because people are
becoming more conscious about many
things that they were not before and i
think this is the right time to kind of
push towards a decentralization more and
i think there's an opportunity for
mozilla or any other browser to do stuff
sir and I think Mozilla is actually
uniquely positioned being aligned with a
user needs more than corporate needs to
be tackling that so hopefully said would
help making more progress in the
direction so I'm not sure if those are
like real answers but thank you my best
type of it correctly thank you so much
for sharing your time and your research
with us we really do appreciate it so
yes thank you
has been one quick question we are
running low on time
um so I'm going to have to end questions
here sorry about that David no I'll ask
offline no worries
so this moment we're going to do
announcements so those who have
announcements I believe Davi
do you have an announcement and Molly
has an announcement
who would like to forego first well
thank you I announcements just for all
the people who are watching us on live
streaming that it should be working
properly again and all of our links
should go to the right places
yeah surprising amount of work to figure
out what was going wrong but it's all
good now and so and the next time we
ever run into that again it's been added
to our call dialogues and our how-to so
if you have questions go to the thank
you and all of the instructions on how
to fix it will be there and Molly thank
you so much for figuring it out yay
pretty hero this call okay awesome
Debbie
alright so my announcement it's kind of
lame after seeing but it's about like
meets chlorine the oh yeah so this is a
time of the quarter where we check in
with our teams and we check what we had
planned for the quarter and we kind of
like score all far and we come on the
week set that fast and we try to do a
projection like a best guess given the
time that is left and given the new ally
responsibilities that we might have
received since the quarter started and
also the things that we identified that
are blockers that were unknowns in the
beginning what is our best gifts of work
completed by the end of the quarter okay
and so this is a time where you can get
to have a conversation with the team and
kind of like decide to adjust priorities
typically what happens is like when you
set a plan in Labine of the quarter you
go from like the ad is going from point
A to point B a lot of people like fine a
little bit off route and so now it's the
time to really like check in and see if
it's more available to adjust course and
go back and in or if it's still valuable
to go into this new direction because
you found something more important if
there is much something more important
that's totally fine as long as like you
make sure like you check in with the
team and to commit to that remember that
like a lot of people rely on the stuff
that is on your cares to like kind of
plan their own row Maps when their own
and so if you decide to drop something
instead of like putting a very little
score on the okay our spreadsheet just
like put zero like if you do a record if
you have for example a completed project
call it completed score right now is
you're not four because that's how far
you haven't gotten till now and then you
want to say I'm not going to work on
this anymore until doing of the quarter
because I want to focus on a p0 rather
than focusing on this p3 for example
just just put the same score let people
know okay I think I'm going to move the
needle is not going to move here and
then not use your weekly things from
your video working looks just like
you're checking if that makes sense to
everyone
get feedback or or if there are other
stakeholders in the community that you
know it's we're waiting on that feature
I'll serial consider like tagging them
on a comment on an issue but that's it
any any questions on this like there was
an issue that kind of explains this
issue seventy set by five seven five
five on the team management repo yeah
like I expected no questions should I
write like something well that includes
the ipfs all hands on call thank you
very much if you have something that you
would like to present to the community
this is the great for this is a great
forum to do so and I will see you next
week take care bye bye
thank you for care for guys in this
super cool the really now we being squad
okay see you on the gist we click order
sync up in one minute
you